as the Sun warms the Heath in spring
males and lizards begin chasing after
females in the late 1980s martin
pioneered a program of captive breeding
and successfully brought the lizards
back from the brink of extinction sand
ezard's are so rare because this habitat
is rare the new forest has more than a
quarter of Britain's remaining lowland
Heath and so is crucially important for
heathland creatures Martin's careful
stewardship extends to those that might
not have so many friends one of my
favorite reptiles is the other there are
certain places where in the spring if
you walk very carefully you can see them
out in the open
soaking up the warm sunshine others are
only venomous snake but they're really
not aggressive you leave them alone
they'll just look quietly away into the
undergrowth
these heathlands are also home to some
of Britain's rarest birds like the tiny
Dartford Warbler it survives through the
cold months seeking out insect larvae
hidden in the course buds but it's
vulnerable to harsh winters
so exists on a knife edge hugging the
warm south coast of England but at the
northern limit of its range for the dark
furred Warbler spring never comes soon
enough
[Music]
hobbies are migrants arriving all the
way from West Africa they rely on the
heathland for feeding and breeding
I just love hobbies are so beautiful the
birds they the Falcons similar to but
smaller than the Peregrine and hunting
sworn appraisal help small birds even
dragonflies and things like that no
catch on the wing wonderful for us
[Music]
you